What is git?

Git is version control system.

Git offers a lot of features that we might not use for this Java course. But working with git will allow us to learn many features that git offers.
Git is being used by lot of companies around the world and it will be useful for us to learn it now so that it can help us in the long term.
We will be using git for taking notes, exercises and any quizzes.

What is github?

Github is a website that allows people to write notes and code that is visible to people all around the world to help learn programming languages.

Lets say you stopped learning Java for a little bit and you want to get back to it. Uploading notes and code onto github will help refresh the memory
and get you back on track quickly.

While this is a big use of github, it is also very important as many companies these days are looking at applicants profiles for github accounts 
to see how much the applicant has learned.

Now, to the process of adding things to your github repository:

create an account

Create a repository to your laptop

A repository is collection of files (can contain folders)

go to github.com and login. Go to repository

for example a repository basicjava for my account will be https://github.com/tejaprakki/basicjava.git (see the pattern here)

https://github.com/account name (here tejaprakki is my account)/repository name (basicjava).git

on your laptop go to command prompt and type the following command

cd \
md gitlearn
cd gitlearn
git clone aboveurl
like below
clonerepository

This will bring whatever is there in the github repository on to your machine.

Note: When you have empty files in your repository you may see some warnings but thats normal.

Adding new files

Lets say you want to add new files in to this repository. For example you are creating session3notes.txt for this session.

type, notepad session3notes.txt

in notepad type your own notes

use File->Save option to save

Quit the notepad

now type git status this command will show any changes done in red color indicating some changes you have done.

type git add * to add these files to your local git (note: your file is still on your laptop and not your github repository).

next type git status again to see all the files are shown in green.

type git commit -m "some comment" This will put in to local git (again your file is still in on your machine).

type git push origin master to finally push these changes to your github account (This puts it in the github account for everyone to see).

Now, you can check your github account and see whether your newly added file is there.


Modifying the files

The procedure is same except instead of creating new file you will be modifying.

open command prompt
cd \
cd gitlearn\basicjava
notepad session3.txt
modify with new notes
File->Save
quit notepad
git status
git add *
git commit -m "comment"
git push origin master
Deleting the files

use del command (or use file explorer)
repeat the above git commands

Making Eclipse Workspace to basicjava repository for checking the projects in to github

We can make Eclipse to create java projects in the basicjava repository so that whenever we create new project for our java learning we can easily check them.

Eclipse

Launch eclipse

Depending upon your settings you may be asked to select the workspace when you open it.

selectworkspace

If not you can use File-> selectworkspace

if you create a java project with this workspace, you can checkin to the github by following the above commands. Go ahead and create a Helloworld project which has been explained create helloworld

After creating the project , go to command prompt and type git status and you should see the directories in red color. Now you know the drills to make this in to github accont.